The one thing that I
want to point out here,
is that if we go to a package.json.
You'll notice here that I've
modified the start scripts,
so I have my start,
this running NPM run serve all.
And what this is doing is,
using concurrently,
it's calling run serve API and
run serve web,
well serve web is a pretty
basic angular command, so
I'm just saying mg serve and
I'm putting this on port 4300.
And I am saying go ahead and auto open
the app, so this is where when I run this,
we just open it up in a browser tab,
over here, survey API.
We're using JSON server and
we're pointing it to this db.json
file inside of the server folder.
And what's really cool about JSON
server is that, it takes a JSON file and
it converts it into
a fully featured REST API.
So I'm gonna just generate one more,
I'm gonna convert this
to a string as well and
then I'm going to restart this and
everybody will see what
I am talking about, so
title Component driven architecture,
go and save this,
let's go back into our command line.
And, I'm just going to shut this down and
we're going to start it up again,
we can see that it's running and
so if we go into our There we go, it's on,
so I'm gonna go to localhost 3000, and
you'll see here,
you have this landing page.
But if I go to courses, you can see that,
this is what's in the JSON structure here,
that we had in db.json.
But if I go back,
you can see that it also has lessons,
so as fast as it took me to type it,
is how long it took me to
expose a local REST API.
So now, with that said,
let's go into our service here and
let's go to our courses service and
let's build this out.
So, let me make sure that,
in my app module,
I have HTTP client module,
that's good, so,
first thing so I don't get burnt,
like I did last time.
And from here, what I'm going to do is,
I'm just going to create
a constant called base URL,
and this is going to be localhost 3000,
if I'm not mistaken,
hopefully that's correct.
And, I'm just going to
create a local property
called model and
this is going to be courses and
we'll see this come into
play in just a moment.
And I'm going to create a method,
and this one is going to be private and
it's gonna be called Get URL.
And all this is going to
do is return a string of,
this URL, forward slash this dot model,
all right?
And so now, I'm going to
create a method called all and
is going to return this dot Well,
what do we do here, where is the service?
So if I go up top,
we need to inject it, so
we'll go constructor private.
Now we're just gonna go HTTP,
HTTP and, There we go, just gonna
make sure that I am recording
this correctly, very good.
And now that I've injected the service,
we're going to go this http,
get and
you'll see here that it takes a URL and
a bunch of optional stuff and so get, and
then from here,
we can just go this.get URL.
All right, and now let's see what happens,
so in theory, this should work,
so let's go into our
courses component here.
And what we're going to do, I'm going to
do something that is a transition step,
initially is we're going to go and
we're going to go this,
course is service, all
Subscribe, result equals.
Equals result.
All right,
I'm going to just type this to any for
just a second, there we go,
let me save this and
let's see what happens.
404 not found, so you can see here that
the reason why this is not working is,
I believe I've misconstrued
my Get URL function here.
So we'll go back,
we'll troubleshoot this real quick and
let me get rid of this, so I think I had
one too many four slashes, there we go.
All right, so if we refresh this,
you'll see that in the network,
that I'm calling,
the localhost 3004 slash courses and
I am returning this to be rendered
inside of the component here.
Now what we can do is,
now going to delete this,
is I'm going to build out the other,
the bullets a 1, 2, 3, just a few
more methods rather to do full CRUD.
And so,
I'm going to make one more additional
convenience method, which is going to be,
get URL with ID and
it's going to take an ID and
it's just going to return,
the start get URL,
so this is just kind
of a wrapper function.
And you'll see why this is
important in just a moment,
we'll go here and so,
If you wanted to find or
rather get a single
item in the collection,
so what I can do here,
let me just go back to local host.
3000 courses is you'll see here that
if I wanted to get just this one,
that I could put the ID in and
it returns just that single course.
And so, this is where being able to
generate a URL that also has the ID,
Is relevant when you're dealing
with a specific item and
not the collection at large.
So get URL with ID, we'll just
pass this through and there we go.
So, three more methods that
we can create real quick,
create is going to be
return this .http post and
this get URL because we
are dealing with a collection.
And, we're going to pass in the course,
now what I like about this,
is you'll notice that I am
Creating these methods that
are communicating with the server,
but this is all they're doing,
that it's very very thin.
And ideally you have a layer that
communicates with the server and
handles that piece and then another layer
that is responsible for managing state.
So here we'll go HTTP, put and
In this case, it'll be get URL with ID and
this will take the course ID because we're
dealing with a single
item in the collection.
And then, what we'll do is,
we'll do delete,
as well, so In this case, this will just
take an ID, return this .HTTP delete.
And this dot get URL with ID and
it's going to just take
in the ID, all right?
So, this is full CRUD, this service, and
what I want to just call out
before we go any further is that,
this code is very, very similar.
It's very, very fine grained and
what we are delineating on,
is just the verbs that we're using, and
how we're constructing the URL and
the payload.
But every one of these methods
is a single line of code and
so this when you're writing code,
this is what I consider to be kind of,
I don't wanna say,
the gold standard or the Holy Grail.
But this code is very
very easy to test and
to reuse and to extend and generate, so
With that said,
let me do one more example,
we're going to do save course,
the question is,
are we dealing with an existing course or
a brand new course?
And so
this is where I use a simple kind of,
I think of it as kind of an up cert,
but I'm basically saying,
if it has a course ID,
in other words, if it exists and
it's not null,
then what we're going to do is,
we are going to Update the course,
and if it doesn't,
then we're going to create the course,
so if it has one,
then we're just gonna
call this update course.
We're gonna pass it in, If not,
then we're going to call create course and
pass it, all we're doing is because
it does something slightly different.
We are creating a method
to separate the two and
then we'll go courses service.
In this case update, will pass in the
course and I will subscribe here as well.
We'll go result and what I want to do when
this happens is I want to essentially for
this case, for simplicity sake,
I just want to get all of the courses so,
we'll just go fetch courses.
And you'll notice here that,
I'm already doing all of this,
up in the in it, so
remember when I said that
in it, really should be
used to just delegate out.
This is a perfect example of that I
don't need to do this logic in here,
I can just call a method that
does that on our behalf.
So, now when this completes,
all I wanna do
is I just want to rehydrate,
the courses so
I'll go here like this and
we'll save this here.
The difference is I think
I had create an update,
so now this should be correct,
create course,
create update course update,
so let me go ahead and
Save this and let's see, if this work, so
we'll go here and
actually let me go back here just so
we can keep a record of the API and
we'll go new course.
Super awesome, y'all, holler and
definitely a favorite, let me save this.
I mean shocked, I can't believe it,
let me refresh this,
celebrate good times, come on.
All right, how cool was that?
I mean, there was a sword hanging from
the ceiling that I need to hurry up and
get this finish and
I whipped out a sweet service.
To interact with the REST API in about,
let's do some math here, hold on,
just wait, less than 50 lines of code and
I feel like if I deleted
some of this stuff that,
I could probably get it down to like 40,
I'm so close.
Yeah, I don't really, that's why I
start doing funny stuff to make it fit,
so anyways, you'll notice here
that incredibly conventional,
incredibly concise, compact,
and then within our component.
We are able to then just
call out to our service and
make that work,
now because we're not using NGRX,
we are doing a few little kind
of transition concession steps,
to rehydrate the course on our behalf.
But technically, or
typically what I do is that when I am I
mutating something at the data base or
the data layer,
I will go ahead and
once I've done that I will just call and
refresh that data structure,
so I have the latest.
So one of a big issue when
you're dealing with Full Stack
applications is when your front
end becomes stale because
there's newer data on the server and
how do you reconcile that?
So, unless there's a good reason why,
if I do a mutation at the data layer,
I just will go ahead and
rehydrate that collection from the server.